Locations:
203 North Amity Street - Home of Maria Clemm

Poe first came to Baltimore when he was discharged from the army, after having begged his wealthy adopted father to buy his way out. Because he was not on very good terms with his father, a return home to Richmond would have been impossible - instead, he came to stay with his widowed aunt Maria Clemm in 1829. He left briefly to study at West Point (from which he was expelled), returning in 1831 to begin his publishing career in earnest. He resided here with Ms. Clemm, his brother Henry, and his grandmother Elizabeth. 

1 North Gay Street - Office of the Baltimore Saturday Visiter

The Baltimore Saturday Visiter was a weekly periodical, whose offices were located at this address in the 1800's. Established by Charles Cloud and Lambert Witmer, the Visiter was known for its advocacy of the abolition of slavery and was eventually absorbed by the larger abolitionist publication the National Era 

Though Poe had published several works before his arrival in Baltimore, his first successful work while residing in the city was "M.S. In a Bottle", which won a contest held by the Visiter and was published in October of 1833.

44 East Lombard Street - Ryan's Tavern

Just as today, Baltimore hosted a number of fine (and not so fine) drinking establishments within the city's limits. Ryan's Tavern, sometimes referred to as Gunners Hall, was one such location, located relatively near the city's docks and workyards on Lombard Street. Poe was discovered here in October of 1849 after having gone missing several days earlier. He appeared to be in great distress, and was conveyed immediately to the home of a nearby doctor.

Much speculation has been devoted to exactly what Poe was doing at this establishment - given that he died several days later and did not explain himself, we will likely never know. One theory with some circumstantial evidence is that Poe was participating in a type of voter fraud called "cooping", wherein a candidate's supporters drugged men and sent them in repeatedly to vote (often with some threat of violence). This theory is somewhat supported by the fact that there was an election that day, and Ryan's Tavern was being used as a polling location.

The building itself was lost in the great fire of 1904. 

100 North Broadway - Washington College Hospital

After being discovered at Ryan's, Poe was brought to Washington College Hospital where he died within a week. He never regained enough lucidity to share the details of what became of him. 

No records of Poe's stay in the hospital, or his death certificate, have been found. Much of our knowledge of Poe's stay here comes from the doctor who treated him, whose later accounts of the writer were somewhat less-than-consistent. 

515 W. Fayette Street - Westminster Burial Ground

The Poe family was somewhat prominent in Baltimore, and when Poe died he was buried in the family plot at Westminster. His original burial spot was marked with a tombstone that was destroyed when a train derailed and crashed through the burial grounds - it was replaced with a simple numeric marker. After learning of the poor state of the grave, a local teacher took up a collection for a memorial to Poe, which was completed in 1875 and still stands to this day. His remains lie here with those of his wife (and cousin) Virginia Clemm. 

Although Poe may be Westminster's most famous resident, numerous other members of Baltimore's ruling class are buried here, including senators, general, and prominent merchants. 